# Heart-Failure-Detection
Heart is one of the most important organs in Human's body. In life, some changes may happen that may bring various diseases like, blood pressure, sugar, etc. Similarly, heart failure is also a dreadful disease. Heart failure is a serious condition and there is no cure for this disease. It is a situation in which the patient's heart is not pumping the blood well as the normal heart pumps. Heart Failure prediction is a complex task in the medical field. The rates of heart failure have been increasing day by day as the rate of population is also increasing day by day. This project aims at analyzing the machine learning algorithms based on the percentage of various performance metrics (such as, Accuracy, Precision and Recall). The machine learning methodology is proposed. The most suitable algorithm for each metrics is predicted. It is analyzed using the specific variables in the dataset by using the python programming as well as different supervised machine learning algorithms which include, Logistic Regression and KNN. 

The performance metrics, Accuracy, Precision and Recall, obtained by the two machine learning algorithms are compared. These mathematical models are being proposed to get the better analysis on the performance metrics. As per the comparisons shown in the table below: Hence, the results of performance metrics meet the expectation of implementation. It is observed that the highest accuracy is obtained by logistic regression, the highest precision is obtained by Logistic Algorithm and the highest recall is obtained by KNN. The random forest algorithm gives promising results across all the performance metrics.
